---
layout: post
title: HMM FAQ
date:   2018-03-05
author: Wilker
categories: FAQ
mathjax: true
---

Hello everyone,

here we will answer some questions about HMMs.

# Transition vs Emission distributions

A transition **distribution** is a probability **distribution** over the possible classes (PoS tags) given a value for the previous class (itself a PoS tag). Thus, the transition **probability** is the chance to move from some tag $$c_{\text{prev}}$$ to some tag $$c$$.

An emission **distribution** is a probability **distribution** over words given a value for the current class. Thus, the emission **probability** is the chance to emit some word $$w$$ from some class $$c$$. Note that, there is no $$c_{\text{prev}}$$ in emission distributions.
 

# Cost of representation

We can use big-O-notation to express the cost of representing all probability distributions in the model. Recall that we have two types of distributions:

* transition distributions map from a class (in the previous position) to a class (in the current position)
* emission distributions maps from a class (in the current position) to a word (in the current position)

Consider that we have $$t$$ classes and $$v$$ words. Then the space of all possible *transition events* is something like `any possible tag followed by any possible tag` which amounts to $$t \times t$$ combinations.

Similarly, the space of all possible *emission events* is something like `any possible tag with any possible word` which amounts to $$t \times v$$ combinations.

We can then express the representation cost as $$O(t^2 + t \times v)$$, because:

* we have $$t$$ transition distributions (one for each class we may condition on), each of which is a Categorical distribution over $$t$$ classes (the class we may transit to), thus $$t^2$$ parameters (probability values) are necessary;
* we have $$t$$ emission distributions (one for each class we may condition on), each of which is a Categorical distribution over $$v$$ words (the words we may emit), thus $$t \times v$$ parameters (probability values) are necessary;


