---
layout: post
title: Grades explained
date:   2018-04-25
author: Wilker
categories: grades
mathjax: true
---

Hello everyone,

we have finalised your grades, they are now on Blackboard and they will soon be also on Datanose. 

This post explains how you read your grade :)

* [Partial - Theory](#theory)
* [Partial - Practicals](#practical)
* [Partial - Exams](#exam)
* [Pass check](#check)
* [Final](#final)

# <a name="theory"> Partial - Theory

There are 5 *Theory* assignments:

* Lab 2 - Theory
* Lab 3 - Theory
* Lab 4 - Theory
* Lab 6 - Theory
* Lab 7 - Theory

each scored from 0 to 10. Your partial grade for *Theory* is the everage of these, that is, sum them all and divide by 5.
If you scored any *Lab 7 Bonus Theory* (a grade from 0 to 1), then that value is added directly to your partial for theory.

The column where you find your grade is named `Partial - Theory` (this column is capped at 10, thus a bonus can never make your partial bigger than 10).

# <a name="practical">  Partial - Practicals

There are 6 *Practical* assignments:

* Lab 1
* Lab 2
* Lab 3
* Lab 4
* Lab 6
* Lab 7

each a score from 0 to 10. There's also a *Lab 7 Bonus Practical* which is added directly to your partial for practicals (again, a bonus here can never make your partial bigger than 10).

We consider the *HMM Project* either an exam or a practical (whichever works best for your final grade!).

**Version 1 (v1)** 

In version 1, we consider the HMM project an *exam*. 
The partial for practical is then the average of the labs indiciated above (sum and divide by 6) plus your bonus (if any).

The column where you find your grade in this case is called `Partial - Practical (v1)`.

**Version 2 (v2)**

In version 2, we consider the HMM project a *practical assignment*.
The partial for practicals is then the average of the labs along with the HMM project (sum and divide by 7) plus your bonus (if any). 

The column where you find your grade in this case is called `Partial - Practical (v2)`.

# <a name="exam"> Partial - Exams

There is one *Exam*, you will find a column `Exam Points` with the points you obtained (out of 20) and `Exam - Grade` with those points normalised between 0 and 10. 

There is also a *Resit*, you will find a column `Resit - Points` with the points you obtained (out of 28) and `Resit - Grade` with those points normalised between 0 and 10.

The resit replaces the exam grade if it improves upon it, thus you will find a column `Exam - Best` which shows the maximum exam/resit grade you've obtained. This is the exam grade that we use for partials.

**Version 1 (v1)**

In version 1, we consider the HMM project an *exam*. Thus the partial for exams becomes the average (sum exam grade and HMM project grade and divide by 2). 
The column where you find your grade in this case is called `Partial - Exam (v1)`.

**Version 2 (v2)**

In version 2, we consider the HMM project a *practical assignment*. Thus the partial for exam is nothing more than your *best exam grade*. 
The colum where you find your grade in this case is called `Partial - Exam (v2)`.

# <a name="check"> Pass check

To get a pass in this course, you will need to score at least 5 in all partials (of the same version). That is, either you score at least 5 in all partials (v1) or in all partials (v2).

You will find a column `Pass check (v1)` and a column `Pass check (v2)` indicating whethere you can pass with the respective version.

# <a name="final"> Final grade

According to each version, we assign you a final grade, there are two columns `Final (v1)` and `Final (v2)`.
The final grade is always 20% theory, 40% practical, and 40% exam.

In the end, we will select your actual *partial* grades and your actual *final* grades depending on which of the two versions gives you the best outcome, that is, the highest grade for which all partials are at least 5.

You will find that information in the columns:

* **Partial - Theory** 
* **Partial - Practicals** 
* **Partial - Exams**
* **Final**
* **Pass check**


Notes: 

* all partials where independently round (with `ceil`) to the nearest decimal (this means we always pick the closest higher decimal).
* on *datanose* we ceil your final grade to 0.5 precision

This is it! I will see you around, or for some other course, and happily, not many of you need a re-sit!

I'll miss you :)


